Project Plan Transcript

I'm just recording this so I don't forget this idea so I'm making a Pokémon AI model right now that's gonna be attempting to basically make decisions in Pokémon battles and right now I'm imagining kind of four steps to train this model. The first step is imitation learning. And so basically what my model is doing is looking at tens of thousands of Pokémon battles in Gen 9 OU. I's looking at tens of thousands of highEO, I believe over 1,500 EO battles, engine 9 OU. And it's learning basically, it's learning to predict the move that a player would make in a certain situation. So it looks that your own team's Pokémon, it looks at the opponents' team's Pokémon, it looks at your moves, it, you know, kind of guesses what the opponent's move or what they, what the opponent's moves set is going to be implicitly. It has some information about the opponent's moveset is based on past turns, and basically for the imitation learning, it's just predicting what would be the next move on my team that a sorry, what would be the next move on my team that a high elo player would make? And right now we've gotten, through this imitation learning, the model can imitate the move. Now it could be the Pokémon move itself, or it could be switching out the Pokémon. So it can it can predict what the move is gosh, it can predict what the move is 50% of the time. Okay? So it's saying that, you know, given this circumstance on this turn, when it makes an inference of what a high evil player would make, what move the higher player would make, it's correct 50% of the time, which is pretty good because like, if you chose randomly, you can imagine there's, let's see, you have you have about four moves and you can switch out around you can switch to five other Pokémon. So that's what, like nine turns? I'm sorry, that's nine decisions that you can make. You can switch to your five other Pokemon or you can make four moves. And so that's, like, if you're choosing randomly, that's, what, like 12%, 11, like 11% chance. If you're a guessing randomly, you would guess correctly 11% of time. But this model's managed to get to 50% that it guesses the high low move. And so the next step is we're going to do kind of a light touch, just a tiny amount of synthetic fine tuning. What we're going to do is we're going to take that imm take that imitation model, and we're going to put it through, let's say, uh, you know, a hundred or 500 or a thousand. I haven't I haven't decided the exact number yet, but a small number of synthetic battle scenarios where basically you, you're shown a scenario of here's your own team, here's the opponent's team, here's, you know, the last few moves, last few turns, and then there is going to be a correct either one correct move. It's something that it's by far the one thing you should do, or it's going to be there's a few moves that are acceptable. And basically, it's going to do I guess, reinforcement learning in that way. It's going to basically go through these scenarios, do the correct move, or at least attempt to make the correct move, and then update its weights accordingly, based on the feedback he gets to that. And so it's going to train, basically, so it's starting with making imitations of what Haila player would make. And then in this second step, it's trying to make the correct decision when it's fairly clear with the correct decision is. And so that should really like tighten up the spread. That that should kind of. That should tighten up its inference to be more accurate. And then from there with what that is going to do is that right now it's just imitating. Right now it's just imitating. It's not that great imitating. I haven't run on too many Chinese examples. But hopefully this fine tuning will move it more towards making like the right decisions, making decisions that are that are going to make it win. And then from there, we're going to move into a reinforcement learning stage, a self play, reinforcement learning, where it's going to play just thousands or tens of thousands of battles. either against itself or against, you know, other synthetic opponents, and then from there, it's going to update its weights, according to having a victory and then maybe a couple other of different rewards, like maybe dealing damage to your opponent, not having your Pokémon damage, etc. And then, so you have this first step of imitation, second step, this fine tuning to kind of just nudge, kind of nudge the model towards making the correct decision in these clear scenarios and then you do reinforcement learning to make it really try to win and like learn strategies to win. And then again, on the fourth on the fourth stage, what it's going to do is then it's going to do more and more synthetic fine tuning, but again, it's going to be a lot more scenarios, and it's going to be kind of edge cases that it might not have learned during reinforcement learning. The problem during the third stage reinforcement learning is that there's scenarios where you can, where there's kind of two, there's two options and there're nearly equal, they're nearly equal in success chance. It's just that either one is just a better heuristic to make, or maybe one of them just like, you know, maybe one in, maybe one in 100 times. You know, it's a scenario you get into very rarely. And it's a scenario where there's very little difference between them. Like maybe like 1% difference in success rate between them. The scenario I'm thinking of in my head is like, you know, if you're in a scenario where the opponent Pokémon's asleep and you have a sweeper Pokémon that's out on the field right now. You have a sweeper who is attempting to sweep through the opponent's team. You can either hint a super effective move on the sleeping opponent, and the sleeping opponent will faint, and, you know, you take that Pokémon off the field, right? Which in general, you would expect the AI to think, like, okay, I can just take this Pokémon off the field, and then you, encloser to victory. But alternatively, your Pokémon, instead of doing the super effective move and taking out that one Pokémon, your Pokémon could take the free turn from sleeping, from the opponent sleeping, could take that free turn to do a stat boost. You know, use amnesia, use swords dance, use something the stat boosting, and then you have a better chance of just sweeping the whole enemy team, the whole upon a team, right? And that's one of those scenarios where you don't end up in that situation often, you don't end up in that situation super often, but when you do, there's a very slight, you know, even if you ran through 10,000 scenarios, you might only see that a few times, and so it might not have the model weights might not be calibrated for that decision. And so I think that there's many different cases of these local minima where a human, a human understands the intuition, right? A human understands the intuition. This is a sweeper, I want the sweeper to sweep the opponent's team, right? Whereas, through reinforcement learning, the AI might not have that intuition, it might just simply think, I want to defeat the enemy Pokémon, that'll get me closer to victory in the past, this has gotten me a closer to victory." And so I think there's these local minima that through reinforcement learning, the third stage, the Pokemon sorry, the AI model could fall into. And so this fourth step of synthetic training, it has two purposes. First of all, it's verifying that it the imitation learning, and then the second stage fine tuning, and then the third stage reinforcement learning. The fourth stage is number one to verify that in most cases it's making correct decisions, right? And the second is that it's in these specific edge cases, we want to verify that it's making, you know, it has a correct intuition, right? And so that's kind of the synthetic fine tuning in the fourth step. And so I think that this this hopefully will be better overall. I think that adding that second stage of fine tuning is going to make reinforcement learning easier, and it's going to make reinforcement learning faster because the the AI is already going to have some good instincts and intuition and understand what it's what's trying to do with winning going into the reinforcement learning. It's not just, you know, it's not just randomly stumbling upon a strategy that happens to win most of the time. It has this intuition from the fine tuning that's been nudged towards, and then from there, it develops it further, right? And so third stage re enforcement learning, and then the fourth stage what's doing is it's taking these edge cases where it's possible that the model might have fallen into some local minima that wasn't the actual, you know, minimizing loss, right? We want to minimize loss, but there' these local minima that if the model doesn't cease from many examples of, or, you know, the if there's examples where the loss.m sorry, there're uncommon examples and the l difference between choices or the, I don't know what you'd can call it, but like the value between choices relatively similar, and there's not many examples of it happening. The point of the synthetic to fine tuning is to basically just help give the model intuition about those scenarios, then it reinforcement learning self-play might not might not build that intuition, right? So these are the four stages, and I just wanted to to kind of get these thoughts out so I can remember it in the future.